update AI monitoring intro (#19183)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/ai-monitoring/intro-to-ai-monitoring.mdx

---
title: 'Introduction to AI monitoring'
metaDescription: 'AI monitoring lets you observe the AI-layer of your tech stack, giving you a holistic overview of the health and performance of your AI-powered app.'
freshnessValidatedDate: 2024-11-04
---

> AI monitoring is our application monitoring (APM) for AI solution. When you enable AI monitoring, our APM agents can give you end-to-end visibility into performance, cost, and quality of your OpenAI, BedRock, or other [supported models](/docs/ai-monitoring/compatibility-requirements-ai-monitoring). AI apps for app and model performance, costs, and response quality. Explore how users interact with an AI assistant, dig into trace-level details about a model's response to an AI event, or compare the performance of different models across app environments. 

Author: ```suggestion
AI monitoring is our application monitoring (APM) for AI solution. When you enable AI monitoring, our APM agents can give you end-to-end visibility into performance, cost, and quality of your OpenAI, BedRock, or other [supported models](/docs/ai-monitoring/compatibility-requirements-ai-monitoring). Explore how users interact with an AI assistant, dig into trace-level details about a model's response to an AI event, or compare the performance of different models across app environments. 
```

<img
  title="Trace waterfall for AI monitoring"
  alt="A screenshot that shows the trace waterfall page for an individual AI response"
  src="/images/ai_screenshot-full_ai-responses-intro-page.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > AI monitoring > AI responses**.
</figcaption>

## How does AI monitoring work? [#how-it-works]

To get started with AI monitoring, you'll instrument your AI-powered app with one of our APM agents. Once you've instrumented your app, you can enable AI monitoring on the configuration level so the agent can detect AI data.

When your AI assistant receives a prompt and returns a response, the agent captures metric and event data generated from external LLMs and vector stores. It parses information about completion, prompt, and response tokens, how many requests pass through your OpenAI, Bedrock, or NVIDIA NIM models, and whether your end users found your model's responses helpful. 

> You can access all of this information from the New Relic platform, make comparisons across apps and models, and create dashboards to help you manage your AI data effectively.

Author: ```suggestion
You can access all this information from the New Relic platform, make comparisons across apps and models, and create dashboards to help you manage your AI data effectively.
```

> You can access all this information from the New Relic platform, make comparisons across apps and models, and create dashboards to help you manage your AI data effectively.

Author: ```suggestion
You can access all this information from the New Relic platform, make comparisons across apps and models, and create dashboards and alerts to help you manage your AI data effectively.
```

---
title: 'Introduction to AI monitoring'
metaDescription: 'AI monitoring lets you observe the AI-layer of your tech stack, giving you a holistic overview of the health and performance of your AI-powered app.'
freshnessValidatedDate: 2024-11-04
---

> AI monitoring is our application monitoring (APM) for AI solution. When you enable AI monitoring, our APM agents can give you end-to-end visibility into performance, cost, and quality of your OpenAI, BedRock, or other [supported models](/docs/ai-monitoring/compatibility-requirements-ai-monitoring). Explore how users interact with an AI assistant, dig into trace-level details about a model's response to an AI event, or compare the performance of different models across app environments. 

Author: ```suggestion
AI monitoring is our solution for application monitoring (APM) for AI. When you enable AI monitoring, our APM agents can give you end-to-end visibility into performance, cost, and quality of [supported models](/docs/ai-monitoring/compatibility-requirements-ai-monitoring) from vendors like OpenAI or BedRock. Explore how users interact with an AI assistant, dig into trace-level details about a model's response to an AI event, or compare the performance of different models across app environments. 
```

> AI monitoring is our solution for application monitoring (APM) for AI. When you enable AI monitoring, our APM agents can give you end-to-end visibility into performance, cost, and quality of [supported models](/docs/ai-monitoring/compatibility-requirements-ai-monitoring) from vendors like OpenAI or BedRock. Explore how users interact with an AI assistant, dig into trace-level details about a model's response to an AI event, or compare the performance of different models across app environments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AI monitoring is our solution for application monitoring (APM) for AI. When you enable AI monitoring, our APM agents can give you end-to-end visibility into performance, cost, and quality of [supported models](/docs/ai-monitoring/compatibility-requirements-ai-monitoring) from vendors like OpenAI and BedRock. Explore how users interact with an AI assistant, dig into trace-level details about a model's response to an AI event, and compare the performance of different models across app environments. 
```

<img
  title="Trace waterfall for AI monitoring"
  alt="A screenshot that shows the trace waterfall page for an individual AI response"
  src="/images/ai_screenshot-full_ai-responses-intro-page.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > AI monitoring > AI responses**.
</figcaption>

## How does AI monitoring work? [#how-it-works]

> To get started with AI monitoring, you'll instrument your AI-powered app with one of our APM agents. Once you've instrumented your app, you can enable AI monitoring on the configuration level so the agent can detect AI data.

Author: ```suggestion
To get started with AI monitoring, you'll instrument your AI-powered app with one of our APM agents. Once you've instrumented your app, you can enable AI monitoring so the agent can capture LLM observability data.
```

When your AI assistant receives a prompt and returns a response, the agent captures metric and event data generated from external LLMs and vector stores. Our agent can:

    * Parse information about completion, prompt, and response tokens 
    * Track requests and responses that pass through any of our supported models
    * Correlate negative or positive feedback about a response from your end users 

> You can access all this information and more from the New Relic platform, then create alerts and dashboards to help you effectively manage your AI data and improve your apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access all this information and more from the New Relic platform, then create alerts and dashboards to help you effectively manage your AI data and improve performance.
```
